Intro
-----

This the version 0.5.6 of foxftp, a cool ftp client. The program was 
originally started by M. Gerald, I just took the latest version I could 
find on the net (0.3), corrected a few bugs and made it compile under
the latest xclass.


Installation
------------

This version of foxftp requires xclass 0.8.3 or higher. To build the
executable, cd to the directory where you unpacked the sources and type
'make'. Copy the resulting 'foxftp' executable to a directory somewhere in
your $PATH (or use 'make install' as superuser).


Usage
-----

The foxftp user interface is very intuitive: when you start the program
you'll see a window with two panes showing the current directory contents
of the local machine and a directory tree view, much like the explorer.

You can then start one or more ftp connections, by choosing either
"Connect" or "Quick Connect" from the "File" menu or the corresponding
toolbar buttons.

"Quick connect" opens a dialog window that lets you enter the remote host
name, login name and password (if you select "use anonymous ftp" the login
and password fields will be disabled). When you click OK you will be
connected to the remote site and a new window will appear showing the files
in the remote machine, much like the window for the local machine, but with
one extra pane at the bottom where you can monitor the ftp commands and
responses.

The "Connect" option, in the other hand, opens a Bookmark manager dialog
window. Originally there will be no bookmarks, so you can start first by
creating a folder (and maybe subfolders), and then adding some bookmarks
to them. Bookmarks are organized in a tree fashion, quite like Netscape's
bookmark manager: you can have an arbitrary number of folders (each one
representing an internet domain, organization, or whatever you like) with an
arbitrary number of bookmarks (each one representing a single host machine).
When you're done adding and organizing your bookmarks, click "Save",
otherwise the lastest changes will be lost if you accidentally exit foxftp
(the application does not warn you about unsaved bookmark changes). The
"Connect" button in the dialog does what it says - it will connect you to
the selected site.

Since there are not Cut/Paste or Drag-and-Drop operations implemented
at this moment, file transfers are done in the following way:

Local to remote:

1. Select in the local window the files you want to transfer to the
   remote machine.
2. Click on the window of the desired remote machine.
3. Select "Upload" from the "File" menu.

Remote to local:

1. Select in the remote machine window the files you want to transfer
   to the local machine.
2. Select "Download" from the file menu.

But there is still a much easier way that works for any kind of transfer,
including remote-to-remote: just select the files you want to transfer
from the desired source window (local or remote), then right-click and
select "Transfer >" and then the name of the destination machine from
the context menu.

While the files are being transferred, a popup window appears showing
a couple of progress bars and a "Cancel" button that you can use if
you want to stop the transfer.

The program includes some other niceties such as automatic sending of
NOOP commands to the remote host in order to keep the connection alive,
automatic retries (I haven't tried that yet), and more. Just check out
the "Options" menu.


Enjoy it!
Hector.
