Intro
-----

This is the alpha version 0.6.8 of the xclass explorer, a file manager for X
with the windows-95 look and feel. I started writing it some years ago after
hacking fvwm into fvwm95, together with the xclass library, but haven't got
the time to finish it.

There are a lot of unfinished features, see below for a list of what the
program does and does not.


Implemented features
--------------------

- Directory Tree and File List views. When started without any command line
  arguments, the program runs in "explorer" mode, showing the tree view and
  the directory contents in two separate windows. If a command line argument
  is specified, the program runs instead in "file manager" mode, showing
  only the contents of the directory specified.

- Navigation through directories. Double-clicking on directories will 
  transport you to these. To go one level back, use the first button from the 
  toolbar.

- Directories can be selected from the drop-down listbox in the toolbar. The
  following items are shown (if the corresponding related directories exist):

     Root         /
     CD-ROM       /cdrom
     Floppy       /floppy
     Home         $HOME
     Desktop      $HOME/.xclass/desktop
     Recycle Bin  $HOME/.xclass/recycle

- The File List view allows single and multiple selection (ctrl-clicks are
  not fully implemented). The four view modes (large icons, small icons,
  list and details) are implemented.

- Files can be sorted by name, type, size and modification date.

- File types can be associated to a certain action (View/Options dialog,
  select "File Types" tab). Double-clicking an executable icon starts the
  corresponding program, double-clicking any other file executes the
  associated action. The file $HOME/.xclass/etc/mime.types keeps the
  current action settings (see the MimeTypes.README that comes with the
  xclass distribution).

- File Properties dialog (right-click on a file, then selecting "Properties"
  from the popup menu, or select a single file, then click on the properties
  button in the toolbar). The file name can be edited, or settings can be
  changed.  The file attributes and/or the new file name are written back to
  the disk when "OK" or "Apply" is selected.  When renaming a file, if a
  file with the same name already exists in the current directory, the
  program will ask for confirmation about overwriting.

- The option "Browse folders using a separate window..." (Options dialog)
  works only if the explorer is accessible via $PATH.

- Files can be deleted, either by using the corresponding toolbar button
  or by choosing "Delete" from the context menu. "Deleted" files and /or
  directories are moved into $HOME/.xclass/recycle, a log of the files
  and their original names and locations is kept also there.

- The file view window automatically refreshes it contents everytime a change
  is detected in the directory, the checking is made every 5 secs aprox.

- Settings are saved on a $HOME/.xclass/etc/explorerrc file.

- The "Open With..." dialog is there, but it is not finished.

- Drag and drop is partially implemented. Currently files can be moved (or
  copied if you press ctrl during dnd) between different dirs or explorer
  instances. Right-dragging shows a dnd menu. Dropping on an executable
  file starts the application with the corresponding argument. Experiment
  with it and use with care!

  NOTE
  ----
  Xclass currently implements XDND protocol revision 4 (explained in detail
  in http://www.newplanetsoftware.com/xdnd). It is a clean and efficient
  protocol, is becoming the standard, and so is being adopted by many
  programming libraries and toolkits. However, not all applications and/or
  libraries implement the protocol as specified, and as a result you'll
  suffer from incompatibility problems.

  I've had a variable range of success with different applications:

  - StarOffice: their XDND implementation is the most complete I've seen so
    far. Bugs: when dragging a file, the drop data is not a full URL as the
    protocol requires, but rather a full local path. The URL class included
    with the explorer handles that case correctly.

  - Gnome applications and filemanagers: they fail to negotiate the
    protocol version to be used in dnd operations. Apparently gtk implements
    protocol revision 3 and they just ignore any windows using a different
    version. As a result, you won't be able to dnd anything from a gnome
    filemanager to the xclass explorer, but it works the other way around.
    Well... almost. They also suffer from the full URL problem, in this
    case they specify the scheme and a full path (like file:/mydir/doc.txt),
    but the hostname is not included. Explorer's URL class parses those
    partial specifications correctly, but gtk apps fail to parse a full URL.

  - KDE: this one uses only Motif dnd.

  - KDE2: despite what they claim (http://www.kde.org/announcements/
    announce-2.0.html), KDE2 (including Konqueror) does *not* support
    XDND. They mainly use Motif dnd, which gnome apps also support. There
    seems to be XDND support in Qt, and a very few apps (like konsole)
    support XDND for text strings, but not for file objects.



Unimplemented features (or TODO list)
-------------------------------------

- The Tree View is not kept in sync with the File List.

- Drag and drop is not implemented for the directory tree view.

- Right-click context menus are not finished yet.

- Files cannot be renamed, except with the Properties dialog (edit the name
  there!).

- Missing dialogs:
  * Change Icon for MIME types.
  * Properties dialog for multiple files
  * Properties dialog for special folders


Compilation and install
-----------------------

In order to compile and run this version of the explorer, you need at least 
xclass version 0.8.2, available at ftp://mitac11.uia.ac.be/pub/xclass and
http://sourceforge.net/projects/xclass. Once you have xclass installed, all
you need to do is to cd to the explorer's source directory and type 'make'.

After the compilation, copy the 'explorer' executable to somewhere in your
$PATH. Since the explorer currently loads the toolbar pixmaps and some other
icons at run time, you must make sure that these are present in a directory
accesible to xclass (see the xclass documentation for more details). Usually
the required pixmaps come with the xclass distribution, so if you installed
xclass properly you don't have to worry further. Otherwise just copy all the
files in the explorer/icons directory to a directory which is in xclass'
pixmap path.


Have fun!
Hector.
