This is an Alpha verion. Thus, I don't even guarantee it will compile. To
aid in getting started, here are a few things I have set up on my machine.

Onyx resides in my xclass/clients directory. Place the tar file there and
unpack it. It should create the right directory "OnyX".

To compile, try a ./setup (or, alternatively a make) in the OnyX directory.

Before starting OnyX, add the icons and ObjectRepository directories to your
OX_POOL environment variable, for example:

  export OX_POOL=/usr/local/xclass-icons:/usr/local/src/xclass-new/
    clients/OnyX-0.3.0.1/icons:/usr/local/src/xclass-new/clients/OnyX-0.3.0.1/
    ObjectRepository

If you can get it going, use NewProject from the file menu to get started.

Save file only saves the code you change. Save project saves all objects and
code.

There are now two sample applications included. You will find them in the
onyx/doc/samples directory.

To use them, select "Import Project" from the "File" menu. Select one of the
.oep files. Then select a name and location for the new project. Once the
project has been created you can now open it as usual. Changing the project
will not harm the .oep (OnyX Exported Project) file.

Here are some things to watch out for:

The Makefiles are from my machine and OnyX generates similar makefiles.
(This is why I requested Linux or FreeBSD users). If these make files don't
allow you to compile your new project then you will have to change the
coding. Search for InitializeInternalMakefile and
InitializeInternalBaseMakefile in MainWindow.cc. If you make changes let me
know so I can know how to ensure compatability.

All of the objects are usable, although some have not had their full
functionality coded yet. Nothing should change in the future as for as the
current interfaces. Only new things are planned to be added.

The exception to the above is the OnyXTree. Though it will most likely hold
as true, I won't guarantee it yet since it is declared experimental.

OnyX.t.xpm (16x16) and OnyX.s.xpm (32x32) icons are now included. I remade
these. What do you think? Check fvwm95rc.append and mime.types.append for
the lines to include in their appropriate files.

onyx stuff has now been renamed OnyX. So watch out for that name of the
executable. ;)

The menu editor will only start if you have an OnyX Menu Bar Selected.

Take a peek at the known bugs on the official site. If its not there and you
find one, let me know.

If you have any questions, which you will, contact me... :)

Have fun. Good Coding. Avoid Microsoft. Sincerely,

Frank Hall
c705751@showme.missouri.edu
