Intro
-----

This is the alpha version 0.3.4 of desktop, a desktop manager for X11 with
the windows-95 look and feel. It is intended to be used together with
xclass explorer (available separatedly).

There are a *lot* of unfinished features, see below for a list of what the
program does and does not.


Implemented features
--------------------

- Desktops icons (wow!!!), you can move these around using the mouse,
  double-click on them to execute the associated action. Click on the
  label to rename them.

- File Properties dialog (right-click on an icon, then select "Properties"
  from the popup menu). The file name can be edited, or settings can be
  changed.  The file attributes and/or the new file name are written back to
  the disk when "OK" or "Apply" is selected.  When renaming a file, if a
  file with the same name already exists in the current directory, the
  program will ask for confirmation about overwriting.

- The icons are automatically updated everytime a change is detected in the
  desktop directory, the checking is made every 5 secs aprox.

- Settings are saved on a $HOME/.xclass/etc/desktoprc file.

- Drag and drop is partially implemented. Currently files can be moved (or
  copied if you press ctrl during dnd) between desktop and different
  explorer instances. Right-dragging shows a dnd menu. Dropping on an
  executable file starts the application with the corresponding argument.
  Experiment with it and use with care!

  NOTE
  ----
  Xclass currently implements XDND protocol revision 4 (explained in detail
  in http://www.newplanetsoftware.com/xdnd). It is a clean and efficient
  protocol, is becoming the standard, and so is being adopted by many
  programming libraries and toolkits. However, not all applications and/or
  libraries implement the protocol as specified, and as a result you'll
  suffer from incompatibility problems.

  I've had a variable range of success with different applications:

  - StarOffice: their XDND implementation is the most complete I've seen so
    far. Bugs: when dragging a file, the data dropped is not a full URL as
    the protocol requires, but rather a full local path. The URL class
    included with the explorer handles that case correctly.

  - Gnome applications and filemanagers: they fail to negotiate the
    protocol version to be used in dnd operations. Apparently gtk implements
    protocol revision 3 and they just ignore any windows using a different
    version. As a result, you won't be able to dnd anything from a gnome
    filemanager to the xclass explorer, but it works the other way around.
    Well... almost. They also suffer from the full URL problem, in this
    case they specify the scheme and a full path (like file:/mydir/doc.txt),
    but the hostname is not included. Explorer's URL class parses those
    partial specifications correctly, but gtk apps fail to parse a full URL.

  - KDE: this one uses only Motif dnd.

  - KDE2: despite what they claim (http://www.kde.org/announcements/
    announce-2.0.html), KDE2 (including Konqueror) does *not* support
    XDND. They mainly use Motif dnd, which gnome apps also support. There
    seems to be XDND support in Qt, and a very few apps (like konsole)
    support XDND for text strings, but not for file objects.



Unimplemented features (or TODO list)
-------------------------------------

- Right-click context menus are not finished yet.

- Missing dialogs:
  * Change Icon
  * Properties dialog for multiple files
  * Properties dialog for special folders


Compilation and install
-----------------------

In order to compile and run this version of desktop, you need at least
xclass version 0.8.2, available from ftp://mitac11.uia.ac.be/pub/xclass and
http://sourceforge.net/projects/xclass. Once you have xclass installed, all
you need to do is to cd to the desktop's source directory and type 'make'.

After the compilation, copy the 'desktop' executable to somewhere in your
$PATH (or use 'make install' as superuser).

If you are using fvwm95, make sure you add the following line to your
.fvwm95rc file:

  Style "Desktop" Sticky,WindowListSkip

Also, it would be a good idea to start the desktop manager at fvwm95
startup:

  AddToFunc "InitFunction" "I" Exec desktop > /dev/null &

When started the very first time, the desktop directory will be created
(usually $HOME/.xclass/desktop), and a couple of icons (a shortcut to your
home directory and a "Recycle Bin" object) will appear on the left-top
corner of the desktop. I'm planning to add some more useful default icons,
but right now you'll have to do it manually: start the xclass explorer and
drag some files to the desktop. If you want to create a shortcut, just
right-drag the file and select "Create symbolic link" from the popup menu.


Have fun!
Hector.
