INTRO
-----

This is the xclass version of FvwmTaskBar, and is intended to be used
together with the fvwm95 window manager replacing the old FvwmTaskBar
module. The functionality and appareance were kept the same, and as the
previous taskbar this version features:

- The classic start button linked to a user-defined fvwm95 popup menu.

- An array of buttons representing the active application windows: a
  depresed, highlited button shows the current focused window.

- Support for loadable plug-in objects. Plug-in modules for the digital
  clock and mail indicator are supplied. See the README files in the
  corresponding directories for the syntax of rc commands and additional
  notes. The plugin interface was greately simplified in comparison with
  the old taskbar, plugins are now true loadable xclass OXFrames and they
  can benefit from useful xclass features like menus, timers, message
  passing, etc. Animated plugins are now possible, and easy to write.

Additionally it can:

- Swallow application windows and/or other fvwm modules. You can find how
  to put, for example, a tiny xclock or xload window in the taskbar's tray
  in the supplied EXAMPLE.taskbarrc file.

The taskbar will run only on elf platforms. It uses libdl, which is usually
available from your linux distribution. Alternatively it can be loaded from
sunsite.unc.edu.


INSTALLATION
------------

Before attempting to compile the taskbar, make sure you have compiled and
installed properly the xclass library. The current version of the taskbar
needs at least xclass-0.7.4.

To compile and install the taskbar, just cd to the directory where you
unpacked it and do:

   make
   make install

The last step usually should be done by the superuser. Then, take the
EXAMPLE.taskbarrc file supplied with this distribution and copy it as
.taskbarrc into your home directory (you'll want to customize first some
of the options, however. See the section below).


CONFIG
------

This version of the taskbar reads its configuration information from a
separate .taskbarrc file, and not from the common .fvwm95rc file as it used
to be before. This offers a series of advantages, like better modularity,
and the possibility of using the standard xclass OIniFile format. It also
helps to keep the .fvwm95rc file from becoming a bigger mess than it already
is with so many taskbar-specific stuff.

The .taskbarrc file contains several sections:

The "[default]" section contain global commands for the taskbar itself:

geometry - specifies the starting location of the taskbar, in the standard X
    way: {+-}<X>{+-}<Y>. Specifying a starting size is not supported in the
    current version, the taskbar will resize itself to fill the full witdh
    of the screen. If the auto_stick option is set to true, then the taskbar
    will automatically "stick" to the top or the bottom of the screen,
    whichever is closest to the specifed position.

font - Specifies the default font to be used for labeling the buttons, when
    they are not depressed. If not specified, fixed font is assumed.

selfont - Specifies the font to be used for the depressed buttons. The Start
    button will use always this font even if is not pressed. If this option
    is not specified, the default font is used instead.

fvwm_action_click1 - specifies the fvwm command to execute when clicking an
    application button with the left mouse button, defaults to "Iconify -1,
    Raise, Focus".

fvwm_action_click2 - specifies the fvwm command to execute when clicking an
    application button with the middle mouse button, defaults to "Iconify +1,
    Lower".

fvwm_action_click3 - specifies the fvwm command to execute when clicking an
    application button with the right mouse button, defaults to "Nop".

use_skip_list - tells the taskbar whether to show or not the windows that
    are listed on a WindowListSkip line in the fvwm95 configuration file.

show_transients - tells the taskbar whether to show or not application
    transient windows. Defaults to false if omitted.

auto_hide - if set to true, causes the taskbar to disappear leaving only a
    narrow strip, and to reappear only when the mouse enters the strip. This
    option automatically enables auto_stick (currently not implemented).

auto_stick - if set to true, causes the taskbar to "stick" either to the top
    or bottom of the screen, whichever is closest.

desk_only - if true, the taskbar will show only the windows that are on the
    current desktop. When desktops are switched, the list of windows changes
    accordingly. Defaults to false.

use_icon_names - if true, the taskbar will use the icon name of the window
    for the button, instead of the full window name. Defaults to false.

start_button_name - specifies the string to be displayed in the Start
    button. Defaults to "Start".

start_button_icon - specifies the name of the icon to display at the left of
    the Start button.

start_fvwm_menu - specifies the fvwm95 popup menu to invoke when the start
    button is pressed ("StartMenu" by default). The taskbar sends a "Popup
    StartMenu" command to the fvwm window manager when the Start button is
    pressed.

show_tips

highlight_focus

icon_dir - specifies a colon-separated list of directories where icons can
    be found. The list can contain references to environment variables.

plugins_dir - specifies the directory where loadable plug-in modules reside.
    Can contain references to environment variables.


The "[swallow]" section contain the information necessary for the taskbar to
swallow applications and/or fvwm modules. There can be several "[swallow]"
sections in the .taskbarrc file, each one specifying a single application to
swallow.

command - specifies the fvwm95 command to start the application or module.

aspect - the desired aspect ratio of the swallowed window. Note that the
    height of the window is restricted to be slightly smaller than the
    height of the taskbar's tray.

window_name - the window name of the application. If not specified, the
    taskbar will try to guess it from the command option.


The "[plugin]" section contain the information necessary for the taskbar to
load plug-in modules into the tray window. There can be several "[plugin]"
sections in the .taskbarrc file, each one specifying a single plugin to
load. Any plugin can be loaded several times with the same or different
startup options (for example, you can have several mail indicator plugins
for different mailboxes). The taskbar itself recognizes a single command:

file - specifies the name of the loadable plug-in module, including the
    extension (usually .so).

More commands can be added to each "[plugin]" section, these will be parsed
then by the particular plugin module once it is loaded. For details about
particular plugin commands, see the README file supplied with the
corresponding plugin.

Plugins appear in the tray window in the same order they are specified, from
right to left. For example, if you want the clock to be the rightmost item,
you have to specify it as the first one. Swallowed items, in the other hand,
are not guaranteed to appear in the same order, since they are added when
the associated application starts and popups the window. Different
applications take different times to start, and the current system load also
affects result. It may happen that one day the swallowed items are arranged
in one certain way and the next time the X session (or the taskbar) is
restarted they appear in different order.

For an example of command syntax, see the EXAMPLE.taskbarrc file supplied
with this distribution.


TODO
----

- Write a better layout manager for the tray window.

- Implement the autohide feature.

- Save the rc file on exit or user command.

- Add a menu option for launching/removing plugins at runtime.

- Switch to our own Start menu, instead of using the fvwm95 one, build
  application submenu based on existing applications.

- Add an about dialog box, run dialog?
