Here you will find some programs used to test the different
widgets and features of the xclass library.

wintest  - used to test the dialog and message boxes, as
           well as the following widgets:
             - menu bar and popup menus
             - side pixmaps in menus
             - scrollable canvas
             - buttons
             - tab
             - sliders
             - text entries

ftest    - used to test timers and file event handlers, just open
           a big file (try the unstripped libxclass.a one) and
           watch the count of bytes read fly. The interface keeps 
           operational and the clock keeps updating the time during
           the read operation. To cancel the file access, do a
           File/Open again and answer 'yes' to the message box.

test4    - used to test the OXClient::Run() loop, the method should
           return everytime the last top-level window is closed.

combotest - used to test the combo box widget.

spinnertest - used to test the spinner (text entry with spin buttons)
              widget.

shutter,
shutter1  - used to test the OXShutter widget. OXShutter was adapted
            from FXShutter from the FOX (not fOX) library of Jeroen
            van der Zijp.

progbar  - used to test the OXProgressBar widget.

listview - used to test the OXListView widget.

xdnd     - used to test drag-and-drop operations.

textedit - used to test the OXTextEdit widget.

favordlg - used to test the file dialog in normal and favourites mode.

exec     - used to test the OExec class.

colorsel - used to test the color select button and color selection dialog.

mditest  - a simple MDI application, used to test the OXMdi set of classes.

docktest - used to test the "dockable" frame widget.

flies,
trails   - simple animation programs, used to test OTimer and animation
           with OXFrames. These programs are based on popular JavaScripts.

root_flies,
root_trails - similar to the above programs, but they run on the root window
              of the screen. Used to test the OXRootWindow object, shows how
              to subclass it. The root_flies program accepts an '-ontop'
              option to keep the "flies" on top of all other windows. BUT
              warning: that option makes some XFree86 servers to become
              sloooow, apparently because the "flies" request save-under,
              which supposedly should make things faster, but in reality
              many XFree86 servers have buggy save-under implementations. If
              you have an ATI-Radeon card you better disable the save-under
              option if you haven't done so already due to the obvious
              redraw bugs. If you have a Riva-TNT card you can expect your
              server even to crash. Matrox cards, in the other hand, are
              known to work with no problems at all.

exception - used to test xclass exception objects.

htmltest  - used to test the OXHtml widget. Select File/Open, go to the
            html directory and open index.html

helptest  - used to test the help browser widget. Use the following command
            line when invoking it:

               helptest appname [filename]

            where appname is the name of an installed application, helptest
            will try to automotically locate the help files and show the
            index page. If a filename is specified, helptest will display
            that page instead of the index page.

gltest    - used to test the OpenGL support (only if OpenGL was detected
            during xclass library build). Click and drag the mouse to
            rotate the scene, hold down SHIFT and drag the mouse to shift
            the object position, use the mouse wheel to change the zoom.
