Intro
-----

This is the beta version 0.6.1 of rx320, a Linux control program for the
Ten-Tec RX320 receiver with a graphical user interface.

Currently the program is capable of communicating with the receiver using
one of the available serial ports. There is also support for managing
frequency database files: the program can read and save files in Clifton
Turner's *.320 format, and the receiver can be tuned to selected stations.
New stations can be entered and existing ones can be edited.

The program can also scan a frequency band, displaying a graphical view
of the station activity.

The program saves the whole receiver state on exit, including the two VFO
frequencies and scan window settings, and restores it on startup. The
receiver is also reinitialized every time a power-on is detected.

Right-clicking on an empty space between buttons pops-up a menu which lets
you to open a new frequency database window, show the scan window, access
the configuration dialog, display the on-line help, or exit the program.

You can have any given number of database windows open simultaneously. To
load a frequency file (*.320 or *.cdf) use the Open option from the File
menu of the database window. Double-click on station names to tune the
receiver into that station. Select "Edit/Add new station" to enter a new
station into the database, "Edit/Change entry" lets you edit the currently
selected database entry.

The main tuning knob works more like a real one (i.e. you click on the small
hole and move the mouse around in circles), and not like the knob in the
Ten-Tec's Windows program. If you have a wheel mouse supported by your X
server, then you can use the wheel to tune up and down with the selected
step, or ten times the step value if you hold Shift down (note that for this
to work the mouse pointer must be located somewhere over the main window).

You can also use the Right and Left arrow keys on your keyboard to tune up
and down in frequency with the currently selected tuning step, or PgUp and
PgDn to tune by 10 times the current step. Use the number keys to enter
directly a frequency (in Hertz), finish with Enter to tune to that
frequency or with Escape to abort the operation.

The Up and Down arrow keys can be used to increase/decrease the speaker
volume, or the line-out volume if you hold the Shift key down.

For more help, consult the provided on-line help. Press the F1 key to
display the help index.


Home Page
---------

  http://xclass.sourceforge.net/rx320.html


Installation
------------

To compile and run the program you need to have xclass version 0.8.3 or
newer installed in your system (xclass is currently available from
http://xclass.sourceforge.net).

In order to build the executable go to the directory where you unpacked the
sources and enter the following commands:

  make
  make install

The last command must be run as superuser. If you do not have root access,
you can install the application locally in your home directory, by typing

  make install_user

instead of 'make install'. That will cause the executable to be copied
in $HOME/.xclass/bin and the help files in $HOME/.xclass/docs/rx320. You
should then to either add $HOME/.xclass/bin to your $PATH environment
variable, or to copy the rx320 executable to a suitable directory.

To run the program, just type rx320 and the main window should appear. The
serial port device initially defaults to /dev/ttyS1, and if you're using
another port you'll have to use the configuration dialog (accessible from
the popup menu as described above) to enter the new device name. Make sure
you have the correct permissions to access the serial port.


Have fun,
Hector.
